Salomon SAS is a French sports equipment manufacturing company headquartered in Annecy, France. It was founded in 1947 by François Salomon in the heart of the French Alps and is a major brand in outdoor sports equipment.[2][3] Salomon is owned by Finnish retail conglomerate Amer Sports, along with Wilson, Atomic, Precor, and Arc'teryx, among others.[4][5]

History
Salomon was founded in 1947 in the city of Annecy in the heart of the French Alps. François Salomon launched the company by producing ski edges in a small workshop, with only his wife and son, Georges, to help. Georges Salomon is credited with taking the company and evolving it toward the global outdoor sports brand it is today.

The Salomon Group was purchased by Adidas in 1997 and the official name was changed to Adidas-Salomon AG. The purchase also included TaylorMade and Maxfli. Adidas then later sold the company to Amer Sports in 2005.[6]

For the first time in its 76-year history, Salomon has become a Premium Partner for the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Milano Cortina 2026. As part of the partnership, Salomon will supply apparel, footwear, and accessories to technical staff, competition judges, volunteers, and those participating in the Olympic and Paralympic torch relay. [7]

Operations
Salomon produces products for various sports markets, including trail running, hiking, climbing, adventure racing, skiing, and snowboarding[2][8] in over 40 countries on five continents. They used to manufacture inline skates, transferring technologies from their ski boot range, but have not released any in recent years.[9]

Salomon's current CEO is Franco Fogliato. Salomon is part of Amer Sports, headquartered in Helsinki (Finland). The US operations of Salomon are located in Ogden, Utah.

Salomon also sponsors and hosts many trail races throughout the world, including the Golden Trail Series.[10] It also runs Salomon TV, a channel that tells inspirational stories about athletes, places and interesting characters from the world of skiing, trail running, and the outdoors.

Products
Apparel
They have a wide range of indoor and outdoor clothing for men, women, and kids that include jackets, base layers, shorts, pants, and tights.[11]

Shoes
Salomon has shoes for various activities but specializes in shoes for outdoor activities like skiing, snowboarding, hiking, and trail running.[11] While Salomon hiking shoes are designed with outdoor sports in mind, in 2023 the fashion industry adopted the XT-6 trail-ready sneaker as one of the must-have sneakers of the year. Celebrities such as Bella Hadid, Hailey Bieber, and Emily Ratajkowski have been spotted sporting the shoe.[12] Salomon shoes have also increased in popularity thanks to gorpcore, a fashion aesthetic that is centered around the utilitarian and practical style of outdoor apparel.[13]

Sports Accessories
Salomon produces sports accessories for skiing, snowboarding, hiking, road running, and trail running. They have a wide range of accessories like boards, bindings, bags, goggles, protective gear, gloves, socks, headgear, even flasks and water bottles.[11]